How to Dab in 2026 (Dabbing Techniques and Tools) 
There are several things to consider when learning how to dab cannabis concentrates. Among other things, you should know where you can legally dab. You should also check your local laws and buy dab-specific tools. There are many resources on the web that can guide you through the process.


What is Dabbing?
Dabbing is a method of consuming cannabis concentrates that involves heating a “dab” of concentrate on a hot surface and inhaling the vapor. Dabbing is said to produce a more intense high versus other methods of consuming concentrates, such as smoking or using a vape pen.

How to Dab
There are several ways to dab, but the most common method is to use a “dab rig.” A dab rig looks similar to a bong, but it has a few key differences. First, dab rigs have a banger or nail instead of a bowl. The banger or nail is heated with a torch, and then the concentrate is placed on the hot banger or nail. The heat causes the concentrate to vaporize, and the user inhales the vapor through the dab rig. Also, dab rigs usually don’t have a water component like bongs.


how to dab oil
Alternatives to traditional dabbing
Several alternatives to traditional dabbing are available, the most popular being e-rigs and dab pens. E-rigs, or electric rigs, use electric power to heat a concentrate chamber, so users don’t have to use a blowtorch. As long as the e-rig is charged and the chamber is loaded, it can vaporize concentrate with the press of a button. Many models come with additional technical components, such as mobile apps for viewing your vaping data, controlling temperature and saving customized settings. If you want to dab on the go, portable dab pens function similarly to pre-filled vape cartridges. But dab pens typically have more options for temperature control, and the ability to fill (and re-fill) the chamber with your preferred concentrate. Using dab pens ultimately cuts down on waste from pre-filled carts and disposable vapes while giving the user more control over their vaping experience.

Ideal temperature for dabbing
There are many different opinions on the ideal temperature for dabbing. Ultimately, the ideal temperature depends on the user and their personal preferences. Generally, lower temperatures will result in more flavor, less potency, less vapor, and a higher potential for leaving cannabis oil behind. Higher temperatures will result in less flavor, higher potency, and more vapor, with less wasted product. There are trade-offs between the two but many dabbers prefer low temperature dabs to taste their concentrate better and avoid burning their dabs.

Generally, low temperature dabs are between 300-450F while high temperature dabs are between 450-600F. If you’re not sure what you prefer, as with many things in cannabis, experiment with your dabs by starting low and bringing the temperature up until you find a nice safe dabbing point

Cleaning your rig with a pointed tip cotton swap
Pointed tip cotton swabs, like a pointed tip Q-Tip, are some of the best tools for cleaning your dab rig. A dabbing best practice is to clean your banger or nail after every use. This prevents residue from affecting the quality of your next dab. Many people choose dabbing for its flavor, and cleaning with a pointed tip cotton swab will ensure your next dab is fresh and flavorful.

Using a pointed tip cotton swab is not a luxury, but it is an essential part of dabbing. This tool can keep your banger or nail clean, prevents your rig from getting clogged, and ensures you get the best possible taste from your concentrate. It will also allow you to dab at low temperatures to preserve flavor.

Cold-start dabbing preserves terpenes
When dabbers want to retain terpenes, cold-start dabbing is the way to go. This technique preserves the terpenes in concentrates without altering their taste or potency. Cold-start dabbing uses a banger to evenly distribute the heat throughout the concentrate. These bangers can be made of quartz, ceramic, or thermal nail material. The banger should be clean and free from any debris or residue.

The benefits of cold-start dabbing are numerous. First, it preserves terpenes and cannabinoids more than traditional dabbing. Moreover, this method doesn't generate a large amount of harshness and thick vapor clouds. It also allows dabbers to enjoy more of the terpenes in their concentrates.

Dabbing Tools
If you're looking to start dabbing, one of the first things you'll want to consider is the cost of your dab tools. It's important to purchase high-quality equipment, so you'll be able to enjoy your dabbing experience for many years to come. Look for dab rigs that are sturdy and quartz, titanium, or ceramic bangers or nails. E-rigs and portable dab pens are also great options. Look for e-rigs or dab pens with multiple temperature choices that are easy to clean. Cheaper dab rigs don't last as long and will need to be replaced more often.

Dabpen
======
Dabbing tools come in a variety of shapes and sizes. The most common tools are the scoop and pick, but these do not provide consistent or easy dosing. With the Dabpen™ Oil Applicator, everyone can dab easily and efficiently at home. And the Dabpen™ Oil Applicator isn’t only for dabbing. Whether you prefer to use oil for dabbing, infusing or twaxing, the Dabpen™ Oil Applicator ensures you have a mess-free and repeatedly-dosed experience every time. Consumers and wholesalers can learn more about Dabpen™ Oil Applicator on our website.