How to Infuse Food and Drinks With THC Using Dabpen™ Oil Applicator
There is lots to know before infusing edibles with cannabis oil. For instance, you can learn more about the lipid soluble nature of cannabinoids, which bind to fats. You can also calculate how much THC will be contained in your infused oil or check out some recipes that incorporate different types of cannabis oil in their recipes. Plus, learn how the Dabpen™ Oil Applicator makes infusing easy, every time.

Cannabidiols are Lipid Soluble
Cannabinoids are fat-soluble, which means they dissolve and break down in fats. They are extracted through distillation, winterizing, and butane systems. They are then delivered to the body through a carrier oil. Cannabinoids are also water-soluble, and therefore can be added to food and beverages.

Cannabinoids are naturally occurring chemical compounds found in the cannabis plant. They are also found in several other plant species. Aside from cannabis, other plant species containing phytocannabinoids include Echinacea purpurea, Acmella oleracea, Helichrysum umbraculigerum, and Radula marginata. These compounds are naturally lipid-soluble and have the ability to dissolve in water and lipids.

how to infuse drinks with distillate
how to infuse distillate into drinks
Cannabinoids Bind to Fat
One of the questions posed by a cannabis oil product is how it binds to fat. Fat is a key component of the human body, and dietary fat helps to increase the bioavailability of cannabinoids. These compounds are absorbed into the bloodstream via the gastrointestinal tract and act on the body's endocannabinoid system. The higher the bioavailability of cannabidiol, the more it is available to the body.

Cannabis oil binds to fat in the body, and the fat can metabolize it into THC.  Fat is also a great storage space for cannabinoids, such as THC. It can remain stored in the body for weeks or even months. However, the release of THC from fat cells is so slow that it is unlikely to produce significant effects on the user.

How To Calculate Potency of Infused Oil
A potency calculator is a handy tool when making homemade cannabis edibles or cannabis-infused things. It is not a replacement for lab testing, but it will give you an estimate of the potency of your infused items, such as butter or oil. It takes into account the losses from solvents, decarboxylation, and the oil extracted from cannabis.

First, calculate the amount of THC per serving. For example, if you want to make a batch of brownies, you would multiply the total THC content by the number of servings. If the recipe calls for four servings, then you would need to use five milligrams of THC per serving. You would also divide the amount of oil you want to use by the number of servings.

Once you know your dosing, Dabpen is the perfect solution for repeatable dosing, as the measuring lines provide a 55mg of oil measurement per line on the plunger.

Recipes That Use Infused Oil
If you've ever wanted to try cooking with marijuana, you'll be excited to learn that you can create delicious recipes using cannabis oil and other cannabis-infused products. The first step is deciding what type of cannabis oil you'd like to use in your recipes. The next step is deciding how to apply.

The Dabpen is a great option, because you can control your dose whether you’re infusing your tea, a treat or anything else!  With the Dabpen™ Oil Applicator, everyone can make their own potent pot creations at home. And the Dabpen™ Oil Applicator is great for twaxing and infusing too! Whether you prefer to use oil for dabbing, infusing or twaxing, the Dabpen™ Oil Applicator ensures you have a mess-free and precisely dosed experience every time.