Twaxing 101: Things to Consider When Learning How to Twax
Legalization has greatly expanded the hemp and cannabis community and the ways we all use the plant. With those changes also come new vocabulary to learn, and we’ve got another one for your cannabis lexicon: “twaxing” is the new word on the weed street. You might not recognize the word, but you probably already have experience performing the action it describes. 


What is Twaxing?
Twaxing, a verb, is when you add any cannabis concentrate(s) to your joints, pipes or bongs, smoking the concentrate alongside regular flower. It can be mixed inside with flower or soaked, coated and dusted on the outside of joints. 

Since concentrates can come in a variety of forms, from powdery kief to viscous oil to crystallized shatter, twaxing lets smokers express their creativity– while getting some supercharged hits, of course. Some of the most skilled twaxxers can create elaborate designs in oil or wax around the outside of their joints. Others take pride in mixing concentrates to create the most potent bowls and rolls imaginable.


twax joint
How to Twax
Twaxing is a free art form. The only rule is the final product still needs to burn. Otherwise, your twax design can take whatever form and use whichever blend of concentrates and flower you desire. 

However, due to the varying consistencies of different concentrates, each kind has to be handled in a specific way, or has to be prepared before it can be mixed with flower. Keep reading for twaxing instructions for specific concentrates:

Twaxing with Kief
Kief consists of the trichome crystals from the cannabis plant. In plain language? It’s the green dust that falls off your bud. You might have seen it at the bottom of your grinder? Kief is rich in THC and burns well, which makes it a great addition to any joint or bowl. You can mix it in with the flower or dust it on top. The downside is that, because the powder is so fine, kief can get quite messy. It’s truly the glitter of the cannabis plant– once it spills, you’ll never get it totally cleaned up.

Twaxing with Shatter
Shatter is one of the hardest concentrates, with a consistency similar to hard candy. Shatter has to be carefully heated with a dab pen and torch or hot knife in order to be malleable enough to place in the center or outside of a joint. If you just put unheated shatter into a joint, your lighter won’t be hot enough to burn it. With all these blazing hot tools needed to add just a smidge of shatter to a bowl, twaxing with shatter is one of the most difficult ways to twax.

Twaxing with Dabpen™ Oil Applicator
Using oils with a viscous consistency can make twaxing a messy challenge, but Dabpen™ oil applicator makes twaxing all types of cannabis oil easy! There’s no prep required before you add the concentrate to your infusions, joints, carts, or pipes, and no loose kief that can get everywhere. With a simple twist, click, and push, you’ll be twaxing in no time – you can try one out today, with brand partners across the country, like Cresco, Columbia Care, Jetty Extracts, and more. including already filled with Jetty Extracts premium oil. 

Twaxing the Outside of a Joint or Blunt
With the Dabpen™ Oil Applicator, anyone can be a twaxing artist. To create patterns and designs on the exterior of your joint or blunt, just follow these instructions.

Roll your joint or blunt and seal it. But wait, don’t smoke yet!

Remove the cap from the Dabpen™ Oil Applicator, then twist the pen to your desired dose. Press the button on top of the applicator to dispense the oil. With the Dabpen™ Oil Applicator in one hand, and the joint or blunt in the other, you can draw patterns like criss-crosses and spirals, or freehand your own design. The oil will adhere to the outside of the wrap. Re-cap the applicator to preserve the oil and eliminate any chance of mess.

Let your design harden for a moment. This is the ideal time to take a pic for the gram, so others can admire your creative stoner genius.

Twaxing the Inside of a Joint or Blunt, A.K.A. Making Your Own Infused joint or Pre-Roll
Interior twaxing is less showy than exterior twaxing, but just as potent (and maybe a little easier). To twax the inside of a joint or blunt, just follow these instructions:

Lay out your paper or wrap and fill with one layer of ground flower.

Remove the cap from the Dabpen™ Oil Applicator, then twist the pen to your desired dose. Press the button on top of the applicator to dispense the oil in a line (or multiple lines) on top of the flower. Re-cap the applicator to preserve the oil and eliminate any chance of mess.

Cover the oil with another layer of flower, then roll it up. Your twaxed joint or blunt is ready to smoke.